Third round of updates to 0.35 release notes (#5261)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: doc/releases/changelog-0.35.0.md

        return qml.density_matrix(2)
    ```
    
  * It is now more intuitive to handle parametrized Qiskit circuits. Consider the following circuit:

    ```python
    from qiskit.circuit import Parameter

    angle0 = Parameter("x")
    angle1 = Parameter("y")

    qc = QuantumCircuit(2, 2)
    qc.rx(angle0, 0)
    qc.ry(angle1, 1)
    qc.cx(1, 0)
    ```
    
    We can convert this circuit into a QNode with two arguments, corresponding to `x` and `y`:

    ```python
    measurements = qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0))
    qfunc = qml.from_qiskit(qc, measurements)
    qnode = qml.QNode(qfunc, dev)
    ```
    
    The QNode can be evaluated and differentiated:

    ```pycon
    >>> x, y = qml.numpy.array([0.4, 0.5], requires_grad=True)
    >>> qnode(x, y)
    tensor(0.80830707, requires_grad=True)
    >>> qml.grad(qnode)(x, y)
    (tensor(-0.34174675, requires_grad=True),
     tensor(-0.44158016, requires_grad=True))
    ```

    This shows how easy it is to make a Qiskit circuit differentiable with PennyLane.

  * The `qml.from_qiskit` functionality is compatible with both Qiskit
    [1.0](https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit/release-notes/1.0) and earlier versions.

> * In addition to circuits, it is also possible to convert operators from Qiskit to PennyLane with a new function called

Reviewer: I tried this and it doesn't work. Is the feature _only_ for SparsePauliOp?

```
from qiskit.quantum_info import Pauli

qiskit_op = Pauli("XYZ")
pl_op = qml.from_qiskit_op(qiskit_op)
```

```
ValueError: The operator XYZ is not a valid Qiskit SparsePauliOp.
```

Author: Yes, we opted to focus on `SparsePauliOp`, because it seems to be what Qiskit are recommending going forward, e.g., in the [`opflow` migration guide](https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/migration-guides/qiskit-opflow-module) or their [`Estimator` guide](https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/dev/qiskit_ibm_runtime.Estimator), they steer people towards `SparsePauliOp`. Note that you can easily convert a `Pauli` into a `SparsePauliOp`, which is what we could recommend if a user asks this.

<h3>New features since last release</h3>

<h4>Easy-to-import Qiskit circuits 💾</h4>

* This version of PennyLane makes it easier to import workflows from Qiskit.
  [(#5218)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5218)
  [(#5168)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5168)

  The `qml.from_qiskit` function converts a Qiskit
  [QuantumCircuit](https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.QuantumCircuit) into
  a PennyLane
  [quantum function](https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/stable/introduction/circuits.html#quantum-functions).
  Although `qml.from_qiskit` already exists in PennyLane, we have made a number of improvements to
  make importing from Qiskit easier. And yes — `qml.from_qiskit` functionality 
  is compatible with both Qiskit 
  [1.0](https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit/release-notes/1.0) and earlier 

>   versions! Here's a comprehensive list of the improvements:

Reviewer: Moved this point up here @trbromley

Author: Nice!

<h4>Easy-to-import Qiskit circuits 💾</h4>

* This version of PennyLane makes it easier to import workflows from Qiskit.
  [(#5218)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5218)
  [(#5168)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5168)

  The `qml.from_qiskit` function converts a Qiskit
  [QuantumCircuit](https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.QuantumCircuit) into
  a PennyLane
  [quantum function](https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/stable/introduction/circuits.html#quantum-functions).
  Although `qml.from_qiskit` already exists in PennyLane, we have made a number of improvements to
  make importing from Qiskit easier. And yes — `qml.from_qiskit` functionality 
  is compatible with both Qiskit 
  [1.0](https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit/release-notes/1.0) and earlier 
  versions! Here's a comprehensive list of the improvements:

  * You can now append PennyLane measurements onto the quantum function returned by
    `qml.from_qiskit`. Consider this simple Qiskit circuit:

    ```python
    import pennylane as qml
    from qiskit import QuantumCircuit

    qc = QuantumCircuit(2)
    qc.rx(0.785, 0)
    qc.ry(1.57, 1)
    ```
    

>     We can convert it into a PennyLane QNode in just a few lines and then add some `measurements`:

Author: ```suggestion
    We can convert it into a PennyLane QNode in just a few lines, with PennyLane
    `measurements` easily included:
```
Minor point, but we add the measurements before converting to a QNode.

    ```pycon
    >>> dev = qml.device("default.qubit")
    >>> measurements = qml.expval(qml.Z(0) @ qml.Z(1))
    >>> qfunc = qml.from_qiskit(qc, measurements=measurements)
    >>> qnode = qml.QNode(qfunc, dev)
    >>> qnode()

>     [tensor(0.00056331, requires_grad=True)]

Author: ```suggestion
    tensor(0.00056331, requires_grad=True)
```

    ```

  * Quantum circuits that already contain Qiskit-side measurements can be faithfully converted with
    `qml.from_qiskit`. Consider this example Qiskit circuit:

    ```python
    qc = QuantumCircuit(3, 2)  # Teleportation
  
    qc.rx(0.9, 0)  # Prepare input state on qubit 0
  
    qc.h(1)  # Prepare Bell state on qubits 1 and 2
    qc.cx(1, 2)
  
    qc.cx(0, 1)  # Perform teleportation
    qc.h(0)
    qc.measure(0, 0)
    qc.measure(1, 1)
  
    with qc.if_test((1, 1)):  # Perform first conditional
        qc.x(2)
    ```
    
    This circuit can be converted into PennyLane with the Qiskit measurements still accessible. For example, we can 
    use those results as inputs to a mid-circuit measurement in PennyLane:

    ```python
    @qml.qnode(dev)
    def teleport():
        m0, m1 = qml.from_qiskit(qc)()
        qml.cond(m0, qml.Z)(2)
        return qml.density_matrix(2)
    ```

    ```pycon
    >>> teleport()
    tensor([[0.81080498+0.j, 0.        +0.j],
        [0.        +0.j, 0.18919502+0.j]], requires_grad=True)

>     ```

Author: I don't have a strong preference, but I didn't add this initially because it doesn't really add anything to the example.

* In addition to circuits, it is also possible to convert operators from Qiskit to PennyLane with a new function called
  `qml.from_qiskit_op`.
  [(#5251)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5251)

  A Qiskit
  [SparsePauliOp](https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit/qiskit.quantum_info.SparsePauliOp) can be
  converted to a PennyLane operator using `qml.from_qiskit_op`:

  ```pycon
  >>> from qiskit.quantum_info import SparsePauliOp
  >>> qiskit_op = SparsePauliOp(["II", "XY"])
  >>> qiskit_op
  SparsePauliOp(['II', 'XY'],
                coeffs=[1.+0.j, 1.+0.j])
  >>> pl_op = qml.from_qiskit_op(qiskit_op)
  I(0) + X(1) @ Y(0)
  ```

  Combined with `qml.from_qiskit`, it becomes easy to quickly calculate quantities like expectation
  values by converting the whole workflow to PennyLane:

  ```python
  qc = QuantumCircuit(2)  # Create circuit
  qc.rx(0.785, 0)
  qc.ry(1.57, 1)

  measurements = [qml.expval(pl_op)]  # Create QNode
  qfunc = qml.from_qiskit(qc, measurements)
  qnode = qml.QNode(qfunc, dev)
  ```

  ```pycon
  >>> qnode()  # Evaluate!
  [tensor(0.29317504, requires_grad=True)]
  ```

<h4>Native mid-circuit measurements on Default Qubit 💡</h4>

> * Mid-circuit measurements are now more scalable and efficient in finite-shots mode

Author: ```suggestion
* Mid-circuit measurements can now be more scalable and efficient in finite-shots mode
```
I add this note of caution because deferred measurements can still be much better, e.g., if you have few qubits and many shots.

>   with `default.qubit` and better represent what happens on quantum hardware.

Author: ```suggestion
  with `default.qubit` by simulating them in a similar way to what happens on quantum hardware.
```

  [(#5088)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5088)
  [(#5120)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5120)
  

>   Previously, mid-circuit measurements would be automatically replaced with an additional qubit

Reviewer: Moved this up because I think it's important to highlight the performance enhancement.

Reviewer: Happy to switch it back though!

Reviewer: Also, we need to normalize the "MCM" acronym I think 😂

Author: Nice!

Author: ```suggestion
  Previously, mid-circuit measurements (MCMs) would be automatically replaced with an additional qubit
```

  using the `@qml.defer_measurements` transform. The circuit below would have required thousands
  of qubits to simulate.

>   Now, mid-circuit measurements (MCMs) are performed in a similar way to quantum hardware

Author: ```suggestion
  Now, MCMs are performed in a similar way to quantum hardware
```

<h3>New features since last release</h3>

> <h4>Easy-to-import Qiskit circuits 💾</h4>

Author: ```suggestion
<h4>Easy-to-import Qiskit workflows 💾</h4>
```

<h4>Easy to import circuits 💾</h4>

* This version of PennyLane makes it easier to import workflows from Qiskit.

  The `qml.from_qiskit` function converts a Qiskit
  [QuantumCircuit](https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.QuantumCircuit) into
  a PennyLane
  [quantum function](https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/stable/introduction/circuits.html#quantum-functions).
  Although `qml.from_qiskit` already exists in PennyLane, we have made a number of improvements to
  make importing from Qiskit easier:
  [(#5218)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5218)
  [(#5168)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5168)

  * You can now append PennyLane measurements onto the quantum function returned by
    `qml.from_qiskit`. Consider this simple Qiskit circuit:

    ```python
    import pennylane as qml
    from qiskit import QuantumCircuit

    qc = QuantumCircuit(2)
    qc.rx(0.785, 0)
    qc.ry(1.57, 1)
    ```
    
    We can convert into a PennyLane QNode in just a few lines.

    ```pycon
    >>> dev = qml.device("default.qubit")

>     >>> measurements = [qml.expval(qml.Z(0) @ qml.Z(1))]

Author: TODO: pop this into a single expectation value
@Mandrenkov

Reviewer 2: @trbromley See #5268 and https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane-qiskit/pull/466.

Reviewer 2: @isaacdevlugt Make sure you're using `pennylane-qiskit@master` too!

Author: Thanks @Mandrenkov, confirmed that it works for me!

> Also might be worth choosing a different measurement since the Pauli op renaming feature hasn't been shown yet 😅

It's a good point, but I feel like changing it up to something like `Hadamard` feels more distracting. Any recommendations, would you do Hadamards here?

Author: ```suggestion
    >>> measurements = qml.expval(qml.Z(0) @ qml.Z(1))
```

Reviewer: Can we just do `probs`?

Reviewer: And thanks @Mandrenkov! Didn't catch that 😅

Reviewer: Everything runs fine :)

    >>> qfunc = qml.from_qiskit(qc, measurements=measurements)
    >>> qnode = qml.QNode(qfunc, dev)
    >>> qnode()
    [tensor(0.00056331, requires_grad=True)]

>     ```

Author: Happy to improve the code, but I'd like to avoid having to do:
```
@qml.qnode(dev)
def f():
    return qml.from_qiskit(qc, measurements)
```
I'd like to emphasize to users that you can avoid this more lengthy explicit-functional style (which may also be unfamiliar to new users).

>     ```

Reviewer: Interesting... ok I'll think on it. It's a subtlety, but worth the thought!

  * Quantum circuits that already contain Qiskit-side measurements can be faithfully converted with
    `qml.from_qiskit`:

    ```python
    qc = QuantumCircuit(3, 2)  # Teleportation
  
    qc.rx(0.9, 0)  # Prepare input state on qubit 0
  
    qc.h(1)  # Prepare Bell state on qubits 1 and 2
    qc.cx(1, 2)
  
    qc.cx(0, 1)  # Perform teleportation
    qc.h(0)
    qc.measure(0, 0)
    qc.measure(1, 1)
  
    with qc.if_test((1, 1)):  # Perform first conditional
        qc.x(2)
    ```
    
    This circuit can be converted into PennyLane with the mid-circuit measurements still accessible.

    ```python
    @qml.qnode(dev)
    def teleport():
        m0, m1 = qml.from_qiskit(qc)()
        qml.cond(m0, qml.CZ)(2)
        return qml.density_matrix(2)

>     ```

Author: @obliviateandsurrender - for context.

    
  * It is now more intuitive to handle parametrized Qiskit circuits. Consider the following circuit:

    ```python
    from qiskit.circuit import Parameter

    angle0 = Parameter("x")
    angle1 = Parameter("y")

    qc = QuantumCircuit(2, 2)
    qc.rx(angle0, 0)
    qc.ry(angle1, 1)
    qc.cx(1, 0)
    ```
    
    We can convert this circuit into a QNode with two arguments, corresponding to `x` and `y`:

    ```pycon

>     measurements=qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0))
>     qfunc = qml.from_qiskit(qc, measurements)

Author: ```suggestion
    measurements = qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0))
    qfunc = qml.from_qiskit(qc, measurements)
```
Doesn't currently work.

    qnode = qml.QNode(qfunc, dev)
    ```
    
    The QNode can be evaluated and differentiated:

    ```pycon
    >>> x, y = qml.numpy.array([0.4, 0.5], requires_grad=True)
    >>> qnode(x, y)
    tensor(0.80830707, requires_grad=True)
    >>> qml.grad(qnode)(x, y)
    (tensor(-0.34174675, requires_grad=True),
     tensor(-0.44158016, requires_grad=True))

>     ```

Author: Still not convinced that we should avoid `qml.QNode` :thinking: It's in [our docs](https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/stable/introduction/circuits.html#creating-a-quantum-node) and I feel like I've seen it used by users before.

>     ```

Reviewer: I'll think on it 🤔 ... the perspective of a qiskit user has never entered my mind before lol. So, indeed, it might be better to do `qml.QNode(qfunc, dev)` from their POV

    This shows how easy it is to make a Qiskit circuit differentiable with PennyLane.

>   * The `qml.from_qiskit` functionality is compatible with both Qiskit
>     [1.0](https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit/release-notes/1.0) and earlier versions.

Author: I don't think there's a distinction in what we support for 1.0 vs earlier, but it's a good prompt to add this message:
```suggestion
  * The `qml.from_qiskit` functionality is compatible with both Qiskit
    [1.0](https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit/release-notes/1.0) and earlier versions.
    Note, if you are using an earlier version of Qiskit then
    [proceed with caution](https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/migration-guides/qiskit-1.0-installation)
    when upgrading to `1.0`.
```

* In addition to circuits, it is also possible to convert operators from Qiskit to PennyLane.
  [(#5251)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5251)

  A Qiskit
  [SparsePauliOp](https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit/qiskit.quantum_info.SparsePauliOp) can be
  converted to a PennyLane operator using `qml.from_qiskit_op`:

  ```pycon
  >>> from qiskit.quantum_info import SparsePauliOp
  >>> qiskit_op = SparsePauliOp(["II", "XY"])
  >>> qiskit_op
  SparsePauliOp(['II', 'XY'],
                coeffs=[1.+0.j, 1.+0.j])
  >>> pl_op = qml.from_qiskit_op(qiskit_op)
  I(0) + X(1) @ Y(0)

>   ```

Author: @isaacdevlugt do you mean the choice of `SparsePauliOp` as the Qiskit-side operator? Or `I + Y X` as the concrete choice of operator?

>   ```

Reviewer: Yeah, why SparsePauliOp 🤔

>   ```

Author: I answered in the comment above:
> Yes, we opted to focus on SparsePauliOp, because it seems to be what Qiskit are recommending going forward, e.g., in the opflow migration guide or their Estimator guide, they steer people towards SparsePauliOp. Note that you can easily convert a Pauli into a SparsePauliOp, which is what we could recommend if a user asks this.

  Combined with `qml.from_qiskit`, it becomes easy to quickly calculate quantities like expectation
  values by converting the whole workflow to PennyLane:

  ```python
  qc = QuantumCircuit(2)  # Create circuit
  qc.rx(0.785, 0)
  qc.ry(1.57, 1)

  measurements = [qml.expval(pl_op)]  # Create QNode
  qfunc = qml.from_qiskit(qc, measurements)
  qnode = qml.QNode(qfunc, dev)
  ```
  ```pycon
  >>> qnode()  # Evaluate!
  [tensor(0.29317504, requires_grad=True)]
  ```

> 

Author: > Just an overall comment on the qiskit features: let's make the examples super clear and concise for Qiskit users unfamiliar with PennyLane. Any time we can avoid layers of abstraction we should do that!

Yes :100: - I think the main thing is for us to come to agreement on the choice of `@qnode` vs `QNode`. Any other concerns aside from the comments above?

> 

Reviewer: Nope I think that's the main one! That's the only immediately "foreign" looking thing to qiskit users (i.e., the whole "QNode" thing) in this release, I would think... need to think on it 🤔

  Previously, mid-circuit measurements would be automatically replaced with an additional qubit
  using the `@qml.defer_measurements` transform, so the above circuit would have required thousands
  of qubits to simulate. All the mid-circuit measurement features supported through deferred
  measurements, such as post-selection and classical control, are now supported natively with
  a finite number of shots in `default.qubit`.

<h4>Work easily and efficiently with operators 🔧</h4>

> 

Author: > line 191: can we say that we "renamed" the Pauli operators and that the old names will be deprecated soon?

I added a note here: 16c0a598275c671c53d77bdc201ce77f6ce15a5e. We decided to keep the `PauliX`, etc., names for the foreseeable future just because of how ingrained their use is.

> line 200: I'm not sure that I understand the feature 🤔

Yes maybe this is a more subtle one :thinking: The idea is that if you do `op = qml.X(0) + qml.Y(0)`, there are two things: (i) the frontend `op` which is a PennyLane operator, and (ii) the backend Pauli representation. If we do arithmetic with `op`, then we can use the Pauli representation to speed up calculations. The rest of that bullet point just talks about the `PauliSentence` and `PauliWord` objects which form the Pauli representation. Maybe a tweak of the first sentence could help? E.g., "Operators in PennyLane can have a backend Pauli representation, which can be used to perform faster operator arithmetic. Now, the Pauli representation will be automatically used for calculations when available." @Qottmann is this still accurate?

> line 244: is there a way to reword this such that it makes the impact on the user clearer?

How about "The `Sum` and `Prod` classes, two major components of our new approach to operator arithmetic, have been updated to reach feature parity with `Hamiltonian` and `Tensor`, respectively. This should minimize the effort to port over any existing code."

> line 269: is that all we have to say about the clifford device? All good if so, just wondering

:thinking: This one was a bit more lightweight as it's a frontend for another package (`stim`), but if I were to expand on anything it would be showing an example with errors present in the circuit. You think that would be good?

> 

Reviewer 3: > "Operators in PennyLane can have a backend Pauli representation, which can be used to perform faster operator arithmetic. Now, the Pauli representation will be automatically used for calculations when available." @Qottmann is this still accurate?

👍 (there are still more tweaks to do but overall thats the idea yeah)

  using the `@qml.defer_measurements` transform, so the above circuit would have required thousands
  of qubits to simulate.

<h4>Work easily and efficiently with operators 🔧</h4>

> * Over the past few releases, PennyLane's approach to operator arithmetic has been overhauled.

Reviewer 4: @isaacdevlugt @trbromley regarding this point; I feel like the positioning is a bit off here 🤔 It's focusing too much on marketing the _implementation details_ (Sum, Prod, the op_math module, etc.), but the focus of this bullet point should be: what does this allow me to do as a user of PL?

          qml.measure(0)
      return qml.sample(qml.PauliX(0))
  ```

  ```pycon
  >>> f()
  tensor([-1, -1, -1,  1,  1, -1,  1, -1,  1, -1], requires_grad=True)
  ```

<h4>Work easily and efficiently with operators 🔧</h4>

* Over the past few releases, PennyLane's approach to operator arithmetic has been in the process
  of being overhauled. We have a few objectives:

>   1. To make it as easy to work with PennyLane operators as it would with pen and paper.

Author: ```suggestion
  1. To make it as easy to work with PennyLane operators as it would be with pen and paper.
```

    >>> X(0)
    X(0)
    ```
    
    The original long-form names `Identity`, `PauliX`, `PauliY`, and `PauliZ` remain available, but
    use of the short-form names is now recommended.

  * PennyLane will try to automatically work with a Pauli representation of operators when

>     available. The Pauli representation can be optionally accessed via `op.pauli_rep`:

Reviewer 4: Same here; the lead should be the advantage rather than the implementation detail. That is, using the new operator arithmetic, sums/linear combinations of Pauli operators will lead to a more efficient representation, and more efficient arithmetic.

in fact, I don't think we even need to focus on the implementation detail here (e.g., showing that the type is a PauliSentence)

Reviewer 4: Also commutator is a very cool feature, and should be higher!

    >>> X(0)
    X(0)
    ```
    
    The original long-form names `Identity`, `PauliX`, `PauliY`, and `PauliZ` remain available, but
    use of the short-form names is now recommended.

  * A new `qml.commutator` function is now available that allows you to compute commutators between
    PennyLane operators.
    [(#5051)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5051)
    [(#5052)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5052)
    [(#5098)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5098)

    ```pycon
    >>> qml.commutator(X(0), Y(0))
    2j * Z(0)
    ```
  
  * PennyLane can now speed up operator arithmetic by harnessing an internal Pauli representation,
    if available.
    [(#4989)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4989)
    [(#5001)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5001)
    [(#5003)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5003)
    [(#5017)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5017)
    [(#5027)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5027)

>     The Pauli representation can be optionally accessed via `op.pauli_rep`:

Reviewer: Not sure I understand this one. How does the speedup get triggered? What is this "internal Pauli representation" and how is it different than a "regular" one (what is that even 🤔 😅 )

Author: The speedup is automatic if there is a Pauli representation available.

Every operator $O$ can be represented as a linear combination of tensor products of Pauli operators $P_{\vec{i}} = P_{i_{1}} \otimes P_{i_2} \otimes \ldots \otimes P_{i_n}$ with $P_{i} \in  \\{I, X, Y, Z \\}$, where the coefficients of the linear combination are found via $c_{\vec{i}} = \mbox{Tr}(O P_{\vec{i}})$.

Suppose you have operators $O$, $P$, $Q$ and calculate $O P + Q$. In new op arithmetic, PennyLane monitors the Pauli representation of $O$, $P$, and $Q$ (if available) and uses that to perform the calculation. Moreover, this should hopefully be fast because we're using the efficient representation given by `PauliWord` and `PauliSentence`. In old op arithmetic, I think we were partly in this direction if using `Hamiltonian` objects, but the hope is that things are now more standardised and more efficient.

Reviewer: Ah! Ok this is clear to me now.

    >>> X(0)
    X(0)
    ```
    
    The original long-form names `Identity`, `PauliX`, `PauliY`, and `PauliZ` remain available, but
    use of the short-form names is now recommended.

  * A new `qml.commutator` function is now available that allows you to compute commutators between
    PennyLane operators.
    [(#5051)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5051)
    [(#5052)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5052)
    [(#5098)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5098)

    ```pycon
    >>> qml.commutator(X(0), Y(0))
    2j * Z(0)
    ```
  
  * PennyLane can now speed up operator arithmetic by harnessing an internal Pauli representation,
    if available.
    [(#4989)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4989)
    [(#5001)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5001)
    [(#5003)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5003)
    [(#5017)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5017)
    [(#5027)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5027)

    The Pauli representation can be optionally accessed via `op.pauli_rep`:

    ```pycon

>     >>> op = X(0) + Y(0)

Author: ```suggestion
    >>> qml.operation.enable_new_opmath()
    >>> op = X(0) + Y(0)
```

  now strictly faster for jax.
  [(#4963)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4963)

> * PennyLane can now use lightning provided VJPs by selecting `device_vjp=True` on the QNode.

Reviewer: Might be worth a small code example ?

```suggestion
* PennyLane can now use lightning-provided VJPs by selecting `device_vjp=True` on the QNode.
```

  [(#4914)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4914)

> * `device_vjp` can now be used with normal Tensorflow. Support has not yet been added

Reviewer: 🤔

Author: This is one of those improvements-section ones where the user facing implication is perhaps not so clear until a future release :sweat_smile: In 0.36 we'll hopefully have `device_vjp` enabled by default (main improvement should be big speedups for cost functions with one or just a few dimensions). We'll advertise it much more prominently then.

Reviewer 4: I would remove or rephrase 'normal TensorFlow' here lol.

But yes, I think most of these bullet points can likely be rephrased to focus on upcoming user implications (or even current user implications, because they don't specify you can access this already using `device_vjps=True` in the QNode

  for `tf.Function` and Tensorflow Autograph.
  [(#4676)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4676)

> * Remove queuing (`AnnotatedQueue`) from `qml.cut_circuit` and `qml.cut_circuit_mc` to improve performance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Queueing has been removed (`AnnotatedQueue`) from `qml.cut_circuit` and `qml.cut_circuit_mc` to improve performance
```

  for large workflows.
  [(#5108)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5108)

> * Improve the performance of circuit-cutting workloads with large numbers of generated tapes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The performance of circuit-cutting workloads with large numbers of generated tapes have been improved.
```

  [(#5005)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5005)

> * Faster `qml.probs` measurements due to an optimization in `_samples_to_counts`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Measuring `qml.probs`is now faster due to an optimization in `_samples_to_counts`.
```

  [(#5145)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5145)

<h4>Community contributions 🥳</h4>

> * `parity_transform` is added for parity mapping of a fermionic Hamiltonian.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A new function called `qml.fermi.parity_transform` has been added for parity mapping of a fermionic Hamiltonian.
```

  now strictly faster for JAX.
  [(#4963)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4963)

* PennyLane can now use lightning-provided VJPs by selecting `device_vjp=True` on the QNode.
  [(#4914)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4914)

* `device_vjp` can now be used with normal Tensorflow. Support has not yet been added
  for `tf.Function` and Tensorflow Autograph.
  [(#4676)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4676)

* Queueing has been removed (`AnnotatedQueue`) from `qml.cut_circuit` and `qml.cut_circuit_mc` to improve performance
  for large workflows.
  [(#5108)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5108)

* The performance of circuit-cutting workloads with large numbers of generated tapes have been improved.
  [(#5005)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5005)

> * Measuring `qml.probs`is now faster due to an optimization in `_samples_to_counts`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Measuring `qml.probs` is now faster due to an optimization in `_samples_to_counts`.
```

This one could also do with more details!

Reviewer: @trbromley maybe we can remove the reference to the hidden function `_samples_to_counts` and explain the enhancement itself?

> * Improve efficiency of matrix calculation when operator is symmetric over wires

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The efficiency of matrix calculations when an operator is symmetric over a given set of wires has been improved.
```

  [(#3601)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/3601)

> * The module `pennylane/math/quantum.py` now has support for the min-entropy.

Reviewer: Code example?

Author: Added: ce3c80e03c19d0c42dc63b869142c995419398d7

  [(#3959)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/3959/)

> * A function called `apply_operation` has been added to the new `qutrit_mixed` module found in `qml.devices` that applies operations to device-compatible states.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A function called `apply_operation` that applies operations to device-compatible states has been added to the new `qutrit_mixed` module found in `qml.devices`.
```

> * A function called `apply_operation` has been added to the new `qutrit_mixed` module found in `qml.devices` that applies operations to device-compatible states.

Reviewer: Just putting a note here that the above three qutrit entries can be combined into one

  [(#5032)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5032)

> * Added a `partial_trace` function to `pennylane.math` for matrices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A `partial_trace` function has been added to `qml.math` for taking the partial trace of matrices.
```

* Composite operations (e.g., those made with `qml.prod` and `qml.sum`) and scalar-product operations
  convert `Hamiltonian` and `Tensor` operands to `Sum` and `Prod` types, respectively. This helps
  avoid the mixing of incompatible operator types.
  [(#5031)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5031)
  [(#5063)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5063)

* `qml.Identity()` can be initialized without wires. Measuring it is currently not possible, though.
  [(#5106)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5106)

* `qml.dot` now returns a `Sum` class even when all the coefficients match.
  [(#5143)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5143)

* `qml.pauli.group_observables` now supports grouping `Prod` and `SProd` operators.
  [(#5070)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5070)

* The performance of converting a `PauliSentence` to a `Sum` has been improved.
  [(#5141)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5141)
  [(#5150)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5150)

* Akin to `qml.Hamiltonian` features, the coefficients and operators that make up composite operators formed via `Sum` or `Prod` can now be accessed 

>   with attributes `coeffs` and `ops`, respectively, or together with a `terms()` method.

Author: ```suggestion
  with the `terms()` method.
```

  ([0.5, 1.0],
   [X(1) @ X(0),
    X(2) @ X(0)])
  >>> op.coeffs
  [0.5, 1.0]
  >>> op.ops

>   [X(1) @ X(0), X(2) @ X(0)]

Reviewer: I get deprecation warnings here:

```
qml.operation.enable_new_opmath()
op = qml.X(0) @ (0.5 * qml.X(1) + qml.X(2))
op.coeffs
```

```
[/Users/isaac/Documents/pennylane/pennylane/ops/op_math/prod.py:498](https://file+.vscode-resource.vscode-cdn.net/Users/isaac/Documents/pennylane/pennylane/ops/op_math/prod.py:498): PennyLaneDeprecationWarning: Prod.coeffs is deprecated and will be removed in future releases. You can access both (coeffs, ops) via op.terms(). Also consider op.operands.
```

Reviewer: Oh! Nvm this is expected based on https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5164. Why is this in the new features section then? Was it implemented as a new feature for other reasons (feature parity with Hamiltonian) but will be removed?

Author: ```suggestion
```
Yes let's remove them. We are trying to steer users way from `coeffs` and `ops` as it's less efficient. But this isn't set in stone just yet.

  and the codecov check itself would never execute.
  [(#5101)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5101)

> * `qml.ctrl` called on operators with custom controlled versions will return instances

Reviewer: 🤔

> * `qml.ctrl` called on operators with custom controlled versions will return instances
>   of the custom class, and it will also flatten nested controlled operators to a single
>   multi-controlled operation. For `PauliX`, `CNOT`, `Toffoli`, and `MultiControlledX`,
>   calling `qml.ctrl` will always resolve to the best option in `CNOT`, `Toffoli`, or
>   `MultiControlledX` depending on the number of control wires and control values.
>   [(#5125)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5125/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `qml.ctrl` called on operators with custom controlled versions will now return instances
  of the custom class, and it will flatten nested controlled operators to a single
  multi-controlled operation. For `PauliX`, `CNOT`, `Toffoli`, and `MultiControlledX`,
  calling `qml.ctrl` will always resolve to the best option in `CNOT`, `Toffoli`, or
  `MultiControlledX` depending on the number of control wires and control values.
  [(#5125)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5125/)
```

> * Remove the unwanted warning filter from tests, and ensure that no `PennyLaneDeprecationWarning`s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Unwanted warning filters have been removed from tests and no `PennyLaneDeprecationWarning`s 
```

  are being raised unexpectedly.
  [(#5122)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5122)

> * Added new error tracking and propagation functionality.

Reviewer: More context needed here

```suggestion
* New error tracking and propagation functionality has been added
```

  or uses the Catalyst implementation.
  [(#5247)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5247)

> * Controlled composite operations can be decomposed using ZYZ rotations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Controlled composite operations can now be decomposed using ZYZ rotations.
```

  [(#5242)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5242)

> * Adds `qml.devices.modifiers.simulator_tracking` and `qml.devices.modifiers.single_tape_support`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* New functions called `qml.devices.modifiers.simulator_tracking` and `qml.devices.modifiers.single_tape_support` have been added
```

  to add basic default behavior onto a device class.
  [(#5200)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5200)

<h3>Breaking changes 💔</h3>

> * Passing additional arguments to a transform that decorates a QNode must be done through the use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Passing additional arguments to a transform that decorates a QNode must now be done through the use
```

  you should use `qml.ops.one_qubit_decomposition` and `qml.ops.two_qubit_decomposition`.
  [(#5091)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5091)

> <h3>Deprecations 👋</h3>

Reviewer: Anything about qml.PauliX, PauliY, etc.?

Author: Nope, they're staying for now.
